This is a script I wrote as part of an undergraduate research project to better understand Bruce Bueno de Mesquita's (BDM) game theoretic, predictive, forecasting model. It doesn't have an official name, but it's referred to in the literature as the Expected Utility Model (EUM). The code is based on the pre-2009 version of the model. Until now there has yet to be any published code for the model, whether as the new or old version. Seeing as how all references to BDM's predictions arise from the pre-2009 model despite being very different from the new version, this code is still of relevance today.


PAQ (Possibly Asked Question)

Q: Is this the complete code for the model?
A: No. There are some very important pieces of the model that have yet to be formally published in the literature. The most important of which is position dynamics. The program only calculates the expected utility values from the first round of bargaining, and those values are not used to calculate the change in positions that would be needed for another iteration. I could have implemented my own very inelegant version of position dynamics (which could be how it's really done, but I have no way of knowing), but I didn't get around to coding it.

Q: Do the expected utility (EU) values match those published in the literature?
A: No. After an endless amount trial and error, I determined the only possible explanation for the discrepency is that the code used to calculate the published EU values for first round voting does not follow the published math and logic for the model exactly. The code used for the published values either includes or doesn't include something from the published model, or doesn't implement the published model correctly. Without any published code, again, I have no way of knowing.


Tips:
- Increase the time limit allowed for scripts to run in your php.ini to 30 minutes.
- The script takes much longer to run the smaller the number for Precision is, so use a Precision of 1 (meaning a position granularity of 1).